UltraCAD - An extremely user-friendly, personalizable, professional 
computer aided design package for the Amiga.  It combines a high-powered 
drawing utility with great simplicity of operation.  A computer neophyte can 
learn its basic operations in a few minutes and can be producing high 
quality drawings within an afternoon, yet UltraCAD also has many sophisticated 
features typically available only in expensive CAD programs which will appeal 
to the advanced user.  This, combined with an attractive format, unlocks
the full creative power of the Amiga and the mind that wields that it...

Hardware Requirements:

	An Amiga 500, 1000 or 2000
	1 Megabyte of RAM (total CHIP+FAST)
	1 Floppy Drive (2 drives recommended)

	Supports expansion memory (extra memory is recommended 
	for very large drawings).

	Can be loaded onto any hard drive.

	Not Copy Protected
	Not Dongle Protected

Capabilities:

	Full Object Oriented Drawing Editor

	Real World Coordinate System (English, Metric) and 
		automatic unit conversion (Linear, and Angular)

	Line drawing mode, with axis lock, box drawing, and
		arrowhead generation

	Ellipse drawing mode, arc generation, and rotation

	Text Mode, with multiple fonts, including high resolution
		multiple stroke fonts.  Various text handles
		and flip settings

	Full Automatic Dimensioning Mode, with many customizable
		parameters

	Completely configurable cursor snap.  X and Y steps and offsets can
	be set separately.

	Full display grid.  Can be set independently of the cursor snap.

	Items can be inserted from user definable symbol libraries.  Items
	can be scaled or flipped at insertion time.
	
Attributes:

	Drawing objects can be colored on the screen either by their
	Layer color, Group Color, or Pen Color.

	The number of attributes which can be created is limited only
	by memory.  All attributes can be given names of up to 30
	characters in length which are sorted alphabetically.
	Attributes can also be given an optional comment of up to
	80 characters which aids the the organization of drawings.

	All attributes except lettering styles specify a drawing color
	selected from a fully adjustable palette colors.

	Drawings can be organized in discrete layers.  Layers can
	be turned off, or ghosted.  Layers can also be supressed on
	the hardcopy.

	Drawings can also be organized heirarchically with the group facility.
	Groups are typically used to estabilish the directory structure of 
	user symbol libraries, but can be used for any user organizational
	scheme.  The group attribute can be used to organize bill of materials
	type data and exploded parts list data.

	Objects in the drawing can also be organized by pen style.  Pens
	designate line drawing patterns and configure the physical drawing
	pens for hardcopy plotters.

	There is a last attribute which is used to organize text objects
	called the Lettering Style.  This allows the specification of the
	font and various parameters such as the height, slant and aspect.

	All object have their own Layer, Group, and Pen Attributes (text objects
	also have the Lettering Style), so drawings can be organized in
	diverse ways which enhance the users ability to manage large
	projects.

Editing/Manipulation:

	There are two main tools for editing drawings: the selector, and
	the clipboard.

	The selector allows to pick objects from the screen, delete them,
	or place them in the clipboard.

	The clipboard is a mechanism for manipulating large numbers of
	objects as a unit.  Objects enter the clipboard through the
	selector or by being boxed on the screen.

	The clipboard can be used to move, copy, rotate, mass delete, 
	scale, and flip large sections of the drawing.   The clipboard
	also provides a quick method for mass changing object attributes.

	Objects in clipboards can be saved to disk separately from the
	rest of the drawing.

	This facility provides one of the most diverse and powerful object
	editing systems found on any CAD systems available anywhere.

Other useful editing features:

	The drawing origins can be temporarily placed to aid in drawing
	measurment, or can be permanently reset to a new location.

	The Hook/Unhook tool provides rubber-banding capability for lines.
	Hook stretches a line, and Unhook will remove intermediate points
	from a line sequence.

	Scan scope allows the selector to only operate on certain
	layer, group, style, pen combinations which aids in large scale
	manipulations.

	The view window of UltraCAD can be zoomed in or out to any degree.
	View window configurations can be saved and recalled.

	Razor mode allows lines to be broken into separate objects.

	The cursor can be made to snap to existing objects on the screen for
	precise drawing alignment.   Snaps can be done to line/arc
	midpoint, line/arc endpoint, line perpendicular, and ellipse/arc
	center.
	
Symbol Libraries:

	Symbol libraries can be generated by the user with UltraCAD.  These
	symbols can be made as complex as desired.  Symbols are organized
	heirarchically (files within drawers within drawers...) to provide
	any level of flexibility which is required.

Workspace Management:

	Views (drawing files) can be loaded or saved to disk via standard
	Amiga file requesters.

	Symbol Libraries can be loaded, edited and saved with UltraCAD in 
	the same way that view files are composed.

	Views can be merged into the current drawing.

User Configurable Features:

	The Margins requester allows the user to select parameters to
	define the current drawing view boundaries and defaults such
	as the measurement tolerances and the arrowhead configuration.

	The Automatic Dimensioning feature has several customizable 
	parameters which can be tailored to the drafting styles and
	specifications of the draftsman.

	Several options are available for the coordinate units of the
	drawing.  The unit style for anglular measurements is also
	settable.

	The Amiga color palette can be adjusted to any legal Amiga
	color configuration. 
	
	Several switches can be set to turn options on or off.  These
	include display of ellipse centers, grid on/off, snaps on/off,
	boundary lock on/off.

	Most user specified defaults, options and parameters are saved 
	to disk with the drawing and reloaded with the file.

PasteUp Facillity:

	Renders UltraCAD view files into final hardcopy output.

	Views can be combined in any scale or orientation on the
	virtual drawing sheet.

	The virtual drawing sheet can be a single plotter or printer
	sheet or can be arranged as a poster (multiple X and Y sheets).

	Support for the following plotter languages:
		HP/GL
		Roland DMP
		Houston DM/PL

	PasteUp supports multiple physical pens in the plotter and will
	also use automatic carousels if they are present.

	Support for most dot matrix printers with the preferences drivers
	on the Amiga.  UltraCAD's PasteUp uses the AmigaDOS V1.3 drivers
	which allow the use of the maximum resolution of the printer
	(the old preferences drivers had rather poor resolution) to provide
	very high quality printed plots.

	Plot configuration can be saved to disk and reused.

Planned Near Term Future Extensions:

	A number of symbol libraries for electronics, architecturual,
	landscaping, interior decorating, process control, flowcharting,
	or anything else we can think of...

	A large selection of standard fonts.

	A font editor attachment for UltraCAD.

	A tool for reading and writing AUTOCAD  .DXF interchange files
	which also allows support for VERSACAD and DESIGNCAD on the IBM PC.

	Tool for inporting drawings from AEGIS-DRAW (TM), INTRO-CAD, and
	possibly from X-CAD.

	Hatching and Fill Patterns.

	PostScript laser printer driver for PasteUp.
